                                        LAB EXERCISES
EX.NO:01
                            INSTALLING MYSQL SERVER AND WORKBENCH IN WINDOWS
AIM:
   To install, configure and connect to MYSQL server and MYSQL workbench in Windows.
PROCEDURE:
   MYSQL SERVER:
      1.Download the MySQL Installer from the official website: http://dev.mysql.com/downloads.
      2.Run the installer and choose Developer Default to install MySQL Server, Workbench, and tools.
      3.Install needed files that the installer asks for.
      4.Configure MySQL Server by selecting server type and setting a root password.
      5.Open MySQL Workbench, create a connection using the root login, and start managing databases.
   MYSQL WORKBENCH:
      1.One tool we can use to remotely connect to your server is MySQL workbench.
      2.MySQL workbench is a free tool we can use to connect to the server databases from our personal computer. 
      3.While installing MySQL server, MySQL workbench is also installed.
      4.After this is installed, follow the steps below to set up the remote connection.
      5.After MySQL Workbench is installed, it should open on your system, as shown in the screen below.
      6.To make the connection, double click the box designated by the arrow.
      7.Enter the password. 
      8.After entering the password, you are able to connect with the Server.
      9.To make a new connection, click the plus (+) icon or go to the menu bar → Database → Connect to Database. 
      10.The following screen appears. 
      11.Now, fill all the details.
      12.Give the password.
      13.After entering all the details, click Test Connection to test the database connectivity. 
      14.If the connection is successful, you will get the following screen.
      15.Now, click OK →OK.
      16.After finishing all the setup, it will open the MySQL Workbench screen where MySQL command can be executed.
RESULT:
    Thus MYSQL server and MYSQL workbench are installed in windows, configured and workbench connected to MYSQL server successfully.
